Let us try our hand at object summoning.
So, we're gonna take a moment to
create an object that represents you.
And you get to decide what
properties this object has and
what values those properties point to.
So for example, in my object, I'm going
to declare with const cuz I'm not gonna
change, I'm gonna be Anjana
the rest of my life.
So I'm gonna name it Anjana.
And in this object, I'm going to declare
some properties that matter to me.
Like my home is in San Francisco.
I speak a few different languages.
So I'm gonna make an array value for
different languages.
I don't have a pet,
which makes me very sad.
So pet is null.
I have a Vespa that I drive around.
So that's my vehicle, and
I have an array of different hobbies.
Now you get to decide
what is in your object.
Let's say put a name cuz your
name is how we refer to you.
So let's have a name property, and
then whatever other properties
you want of stuff you care about.
Think about what you wanna
name the property and
what type of value it makes sense for
that property to point to, okay?
All right, let's take a break and
make our self objects.
All right, so we got our objects,
we got ourselves in JavaScript form.
What properties did folks
put on their objects?
Anything new that I didn't have up here?
So we talked about one, for example,
maybe you have more than one vehicle.
So OJ, you put what property?
>> Vehicles.
And what kind of value, what type of
value does vehicles point to in your-
>> In another array.
>> An array, right, for multiple things.
Cool, did anybody else declare any
other properties on their object?
>> I put my kids names.
>> Kids, kids is a great one.
Or kids names, yeah.
Anything else?
Maybe from the chat, yeah?
>> Pet type.
>> Pet type, yeah.
Pet type, exactly, and
what value did you have for that?
>> Dog.
>> Dog, so string dog, gotcha.
Nice, cool, so this is just suffice
it to say that objects are whatever
we make them to be,
we can decide what the properties are.
>> In chat, they put programming
languages, JavaScript and Python.
>> Yes, programming languages.
Everybody now at least has one new
programming language to add to their
objects, which is JavaScript,
we're working on it.
>> So if you want to do like pets and
you want it to have multiple values,
can you create a sub object within
the pet kinda thing and it says,
I don't know, dog one,
whatever, dog two, whatever?
>> Yeah, so we have here, we already
have a couple of examples of using
an array as a value within
the object to store multiple things.
In my example, it was languages and
hobbies are both kind of plurals.
So we have multiple
things in an array there.
But we'll actually a little bit later,
see that we can nest objects and
arrays within each other,
as much as we want in JavaScript.
So we can create kind of like
a Russian doll situation.
We'll look at a couple examples later,
great question.
We had a question about array.join,
and I would say that in general,
if you're wondering,
does this particular thing like .join,
does it work with this time value?
Or does it work with that kind of value?
Or what happens in that case?
So I would say as I have
been saying the whole time,
you can check out the full
documentation on MDN.
To figure out what type of stuff you can
pass into it, what options you have,
like for example with join, you don't
even have to pass in a separator and
it will just join them with no separator.
But if you're wondering kind of
like what happens if I pass in
some other separator there?
Then you can check out the documentation,
and usually that'll answer your questions,
as generally,
usually that'll answer any questions
you have about a specific operator or
keyword or a spell on a string,
that sort of thing.
We had another question about
another specific method,
which is called freeze, Object.freeze.
This is a trick in JavaScript
that we can use to essentially
freeze an object in place and
make it immutable ish.
There's an asterisk on that,
make it immutable ish and
never be able to change from how
it was when it was declared.
So for example,
I could freeze my Anjana object if I
think I'm never gonna get a pet,
let's say.
My pet is always gonna be a null.
That would be a very sad life.
I hope I get a pet someday.
[LAUGH] But I could freeze it in place so
that I cannot re-assign to
the properties I already have.
And I cannot do what I did before
when I did dot snack equals and
just insert a new property in there.
So again, if you wanna know more
details about how freeze works,
check out the MDN documentation.
And then I think we had another
question about the spread operator or
spread syntax.
Is that right?
>> Yeah.
>> And that is something we are going
to come back and talk to later,
talk about later in the course.
Talk to,
I guess we could talk to JavaScript.
So let's put a pin in that.
We're gonna come back to that later.
But if you wanna get a jump on things,
you can look up dot, dot,
dot in the MDN documentation